---
title: 
date: 2016-07-26 12:23:50+00:00
slug: faith
redirect_from:
  - /faith/
  - /category/archives/while-its-yet-day/faith/
  - /category/archives/while-its-yet-day/good/god/sovereignty/
excerpt: 
categories: biblical-orthodoxy
header:
  teaser: "/assets/images/category-biblical-orthodoxy.png"
tags: 
  - saving-faith
  - believe
  - justification-by-faith
updated: 2017-02-12 21:26
---
What does it mean when someone tells you they are a Christian?  _Just about anything_.  The word Christian has been stretched and redefined so many times that about the only message it conveys is that a person has some kind of belief about Jesus Christ.

<blockquote>Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. (Acts 4:12)</blockquote>

You've probably heard someone with the best intentions say, *As long as you're a good person, you'll be fine in the end.* But is this **doing good things** enough?  Can it make you right before God and undo all the wrong you know you've done even to this very day?

# The chief article

There is one and only one way for anyone to be made acceptable before God.

<blockquote>...we cannot obtain forgiveness of sin and righteousness before God by our own merits, works, or satisfactions, 

But that we receive forgiveness of sin and become righteous before God by grace, for Christ's sake, through faith,

When we believe that Christ suffered for us and that for his sake our sin is forgiven and righteousness and eternal life are given to us.

For God will regard and reckon this faith as righteousness, as Paul says in Romans 3.21-26 and 4.5. 

-Augsburg Confession, IV. Justification, Tappert</blockquote>


Have faith in Christ's work alone to save you. Then get baptized.  Find a group of people who believe these things and partake of the Lord's Supper with them.  This is what it means to be a Christian.  To have eternal life.  And to have a right relationship with God.

<div>Originally published at: <a href='http://www.alecsatin.com/'>Comfort for Christians</a></div>
