---
title: "Statement of faith"
date: 2001-01-01 08:00
slug: beliefs
permalink: /beliefs/
excerpt: "We don't become acceptable to God because we are a member of a church, but rather because we have personal faith in the saving work of the Lord Jesus Christ on our behalf."
categories: biblical-orthodoxy
header:
  teaser: "/assets/images/category-biblical-orthodoxy-grey.png"
tags:
  # - one per line
modified: 2017-01-29 08:00
---
{% include toc title="Contents" icon="book" %}

# Orientation
We don't become acceptable to God (some people call this *saved*) because we are a member of a church, but rather because we have personal faith in the saving work of the Lord Jesus Christ on our behalf.  

## True story
There's a person I know who has always been an excellent provider for his family.  He worked hard and always sought to do the right thing.  He also judges and condemns those who he sees as not working as hard as he does.  This man is a staunch defender of his church.  But does he believe in what Christ did, or in his own goodness?

Jesus himself warned that trusting in anything but him alone is a dangerous proposition:

(cf i never knew you)
(cf your works cannot save you)

## Spiritual experiences
The world has plenty of spiritual experiences.  But only a Christianity based on the Bible - what we call *Bible Orthodoxy* - describes the means to true reconciliation between God and man.

Someone once said, *There are only two religions in the world.  In one you work your way upwards to God.  In the other God comes down to us in the form of a man and does the work we are incapable of doing for ourselves.  All we must do is believe in his work and throw ourselves completely on his mercy delivered through Jesus Christ*.

## Contending for the faith
We are called to hold to the faith *once delivered to the saints* (Jude 1:3).  Why?  Because there are enemies - false teachers and false gospels which do not save.

Having said that, it's easy to become callous and abrasive when speaking of these things.  So the proper attitude seems to be graciousness to others with a studiousness and commitment to know and live the gospel by the golden rule.[^85fc7e66]

[^85fc7e66]: The golden rule: Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.  This is the basis of civilization.

What is it to behave graciously to others?  The apostle Paul tells us:

>...the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no law. (Galatians 5:22-23)

# Some specifics - Statement of Faith

## Justification by faith
This is among the most important aspects of [Christian faith](/faith/).  

## Historic Creeds
The *Apostles' Creed*, *Nicene Creed*, and *Athanasian Creed* are a bedrock of sound Biblical Christianity.

## Book of Concord
These essential Reformation documents include the Augsburg Confession.  Together they form an accurate exposition of the doctrines of the Bible.

## Law and Gospel
The distinction between Law and Gospel is very important in coming to a balanced understanding of Bible teaching.  

## Propositional Truth
The Bible is not just a book of poetic expressions of men trying to describe the incomprehensible.  Rather it is 100% factual and true in relation to the things it discusses.  Understanding what Scripture says and acceding to that understanding constitutes the basis of assurance.  Feelings are real.  But they are no proof of salvation.  
 
# Prayer
Dear Lord, all of us your children share the prayer of the poor suffering father who said, *dear Lord, I believe.  Help thou mine unbelief*.  Thank you that you have hidden these things from the proud but revealed them to the lowly.  Hallowed be your name in all the earth.  *Amen*


<div>Originally published at: <a href='http://www.alecsatin.com/'>Comfort for Christians</a></div>
