---
date: 2016-10-07 13:57:17+00:00
redirect_from:
  - /500-witnesses/
title: How many people saw Jesus after he rose from the dead?
categories: ever-wonder
excerpt:  "Last night someone in a Bible Study was curious about this verse from First Corinthians."
header:
  teaser: /assets/images/category-ever-wonder.png
tags: 
  - witnesses
  - resurrection
  - death
---


Last night someone in a Bible Study was curious about this verse from First Corinthians:



<blockquote>For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures; And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures: And that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve: **After that, he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once; of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are fallen asleep.** (1 Corinthians 15:3-6)</blockquote>



According to this testimony, the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead was seen by more than 500 people, most of whom were still alive in 55 A.D. when Paul wrote this letter to the Church at Corinth. Peter publicly proclaimed his witness of the resurrection on the Day of Pentecost described in Acts chapter 2.[^a48d087a]

[^a48d087a]: Josh McDowell. New evidence that demands a verdict. 1999. p. 251.

James Warwick Montgomery writes:



<blockquote>Note that when the disciples of Jesus proclaimed the resurrection, they did so as eyewitnesses and they did so while people were still alive who had had contact with the events they spoke of.  In 56 A.D. Paul wrote that over 500 people had seen the risen Jesus and that most of them were still alive (1 Cor 15:6). It passes the bounds of credibility that the early Christians could have manufactured such a tale and then preached it among those who might easily have refuted it simply by producing the body of Jesus.[^3fcfe417] </blockquote>

[^3fcfe417]: John Warwick Montgomery, History and Christianity, 1971 as quoted in McDowell. The New Evidence that demands a verdict, 1999







<div>Originally published at: <a href='http://www.alecsatin.com/'>Comfort for Christians</a></div>
