---
date: 2017-11-13 06:52
title: God's Hand
header:
  teaser: /assets/images/category-devotions.png
categories: devotions
tags: [Carl Bogatzky, devotions]
excerpt:  "Christians have their treasures in such a high place, even in God, that no thief can rob them; and they are sure to have enough in God."
---
[The following devotion is from Bogatzky's *Golden Treasury*]

>Thou openest thine hand, and satisfiest the desire of every living thing. Psalm 145:16. 

Who considers these words with sufficient care, and practically draws from them the right conclusions? The hand of God being my chief provision and storehouse, is it not a shame to be anxiously worried about anything? Has the Lord all things in his hand? Then surely I shall receive what he has for me; none will he able, to withhold it. Faith has always a free access to the treasures of God, who is never wanting. Christians have their treasures in such a high place, even in God, that no thief can rob them; and they are sure to have enough in God. Though the Lord should try them with want a little while, yet he relieves them in due season: their bread shall fall from heaven, rather than they shall be left without it. You need not, says Christ, seek these other things; they shall be brought to you, if. ye only abide in me. If this does not comfort and strengthen us, nothing else will. Many rely on their ample worldly stores: but, if they had true faith, this would be their confidence and joy, that God has engaged to supply all their need. If the Lord is pleased to bestow on his servants any particular expression of his providential bounty, they are thankful, and make a proper use of it; but if he withholds what they ask for, they learn cheerfully to submit. 

>"My God shall supply all your needs according to his riches in glory by Jesus Christ." 
>
>"Having food and raiment, let us be therewith content." 

Christ, and plain living, is true prosperity. 

– Bogatzky, Carl. *Golden Treasury*. "November 9"

<div>Originally published at: <a href='http://www.alecsatin.com/'>Comfort for Christians</a></div>